Reorganize `user-guide/gems/_index.md` and add topic for code Gems in `user-guide/programming/gems` (#1299)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/gems/_index.md

weight: 400
---

*Gems* are packages that contain code and/or assets to augment your **Open 3D Engine (O3DE)** projects. With the Gem system, you can choose the features and assets that you need for your project without including unnecessary components. You can also create custom Gems to contain a collection of assets, extend the Editor, or develop features and gameplay logic for your project.

O3DE features two types of Gems:

- **Code Gem**: Contains assets as well as code that performs certain functions upon the assets.

- **Assets Gem**: Contains only assets and no code.

> Gems come from the different sources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gems come from three different sources:
```

## Section topics

| Topic | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [Gem Reference](./reference) | The complete reference to all Gems available in O3DE. |
| [Core O3DE Gems](./core-gems) | Learn about the core Gems that are required for most projects in O3DE. |

## Related topics

| Topic | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [Extend the Editor Tutorials](/docs/learning-guide/tutorials/extend-the-editor/) | Tutorials to extend the **O3DE Editor** by creating a custom tool Gem in C++ or Python. |

## Common workflows

### Adding Gems to a project

Gems provide modular features and assets to your project. You can add standard O3DE Gems, third-party Gems, or custom Gems.

Depeneding on your project configuration, your project enables a set of Gems by default. The O3DE build system detects enabled Gems and sets them as dependencies for your project. You can find the list of Gems enabled in your project in the `enabled_gems.cmake` file in the `<project>/Code/` directory. 

The following is a high-level overview for adding a Gem to a project: 

> 1. Register the Gem, if it's not already. O3DE already registers Gems its bundled with. However, you must register Gems from an external source. Refer to [Register Gems to a Project](/docs/user-guide/project-config/register-gems/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Register the Gem, if it's not already. Standard Gems that are bundled with O3DE are already registered. However, you must register Gems from an external source. Refer to [Register Gems to a Project](/docs/user-guide/project-config/register-gems/).
```
